Capstone 2: narrative analytics and experimentation

The plan should consist of three key components:

1. Analysis that highlights your experimental hypothesis.
2. A rollout plan showing how you would implement and rollout the experiment
3. An evaluation plan showing what constitutes success in this experiment

For this proposal, I am going to set up an experiment dealing with Spotify and advertising.

Introduction:
About Spotify:  - Music, video and podcast streaming service
                - Currently available in 65 countries
                - Headquarters: Stockholm, Sweden
                - www.Spotify.com
                
Goals: Increase number of "Spotify Premium" subscribers, by creating locally relevant advertising campaigns

Data: Using Spotify's API, we will locate the most popular streamed artist/audiobook/podcast for geograhical regions where 
Spotify is available. 
                
Hypothesis: 
                - Population: We are looking at users of Instagram, a social media platform where Spotify can advertise 
                  its services. The target audience for this experiment will be all users of Instagram in regions where 
                  Spotify is available. The test 
                - Intervention: Based on the location of our target audience, we will create a new ad that features the
                  most popularly streamed artist, audiobook, and podcast, based on a Instagram user's location. The ad's 
                  format will be an Instagram "multi-post", that users will be able to swipe through. There wll be a 
                  "learn more" link under each of the respective most popular artist, audiobook, and podcast panels that takes 
                  user's to a landing page that corresponds to a preview of a Spotify Premium page for the choice. 
                - Comparison (Control Group): The control is a Spotify advertisement that displays the most popular artist, 
                  audiobook, and podcast based on worldwide popularity. This ad is not geo-specific. 
                - Outcome: The outcome of interest is the number of Spotify Premium subscriptions. Specifically, we are looking
                  to see if there is an increase in new Spotify Premium subscriptions based on the new, geo-targeted ad. 
                - Time: This test will be run for 2 weeks. At the end of the two weeks, we will look at which group, control
                  or intervention, has a higher amount of new Spotify Premium subscriptions. 

Roll-out plan: 
To analyze our outcomes (number of Spotify Premium subscriptions), users will either be subjected to the control ad, or the 
the intervention ad. The users will be classified according to their geographical location, and then randomized into seperate,
equal sized groups in order to reduce statistical and randomization bias, recieving either the non-geo-targeted ad (control), 
or the geo-targeted ad (Intervention). 

For the experiment: 
- Null hypothesis: Instagram users subjected to geo-targeted Spotify ads WILL NOT see an increase in Spotify Premium 
  memberships compared to non-geo-targeted ads. 
- Alternative (Experimental) hypothesis: Instagram users subjected to geo-targeted Spotify ads WILL see an increase in 
  Spotify Premium memberships compared to non-geo-targeted ads. 

Evaluation plan: 
At the end of the two weeks, we will look at the number of new Spotify Premium subscriptions associated with the control and 
intervention groups, and perform a statistcal test to evaluate if there is a statistical difference between the cohorts. 
Because the outcome of interest is whether there is a new subscription or not, the distribution of the test results will be 
binary, and we will use the Mann-Whitney U-test and cross validate with the T-test in order to compare the results. 
