Now it's time to flex your critical evaluation skills. Read the following descriptions of an experiment and its analysis, 
identify the flaws in each, and describe what you would do to correct them.

1. The Sith Lords are concerned that their recruiting slogan, "Give In to Your Anger," isn't very effective. Darth Vader develops an alternative slogan, "Together We Can Rule the Galaxy." They compare the slogans on two groups of 50 captured droids each. In one group, Emperor Palpatine delivers the "Anger" slogan. In the other, Darth Vader presents the "Together" slogan. 20 droids convert to the Dark Side after hearing Palpatine's slogan, while only 5 droids convert after hearing Vader's. The Sith's data scientist concludes that "Anger" is a more effective slogan and should continue to be used.

Flaws: Two different people are presenting the slogans, introducing "Observer bias". Emperor Palpatine is much more influential than Darth Vader as he is the head of the Sith. There is also a population bias, as the droids are captured and have a preexisting influence on their decision making. 
Correction: I would have Palpatine and Vader deliver both slogans, randomly alternating them and see if that makes a difference. I would also have Palpatine and Vader increase the sample size of this experiment, delivering the slogan to other individuals in the galaxy. 

2. In the past, the Jedi have had difficulty with public relations. They send two envoys, Jar Jar Binks and Mace Windu, to four friendly and four unfriendly planets respectively, with the goal of promoting favorable feelings toward the Jedi. Upon their return, the envoys learn that Jar Jar was much more effective than Windu: Over 75% of the people surveyed said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Jar Jar, while only 65% said their attitudes had become more favorable after speaking with Windu. This makes Windu angry, because he is sure that he had a better success rate than Jar Jar on every planet. The Jedi choose Jar Jar to be their representative in the future.

Flaws: Simpson's paradox, the sample sizes of the planet may be impacting the overall rate. Population bias exists, as it is not a random selection (4 friendly planets for Mace Windu, 4 unfriendly planets for Jar Jar)
Correction: Randomize the target audience to ensure that the sample sizes of the planets are similar, 

3. A company with work sites in five different countries has sent you data on employee satisfaction rates for workers in Human Resources and workers in Information Technology. Most HR workers are concentrated in three of the countries, while IT workers are equally distributed across worksites. The company requests a report on satisfaction for each job type. You calculate average job satisfaction for HR and for IT and present the report.

Flaws: Simpson's paradox, not accounting for the differences in the countries the employees are based in.
Correction: Calculate the average job satisfaction by country and job type. 

4. When people install the Happy Days Fitness Tracker app, they are asked to "opt in" to a data collection scheme where their level of physical activity data is automatically sent to the company for product research purposes. During your interview with the company, they tell you that the app is very effective because after installing the app, the data show that people's activity levels rise steadily.

Flaws: Population bias - this app is a voluntary opt-in to a data collection. It is possible that people who are more active in general will opt-in to get their data collected, which doesnt account for the less active people who are using the app.
Correction: Turn off the "opt in" option and record everyone who is using the app to get a better idea of the users, from a less biased population. 

5. To prevent cheating, a teacher writes three versions of a test. She stacks the three versions together, first all copies of Version A, then all copies of Version B, then all copies of Version C. As students arrive for the exam, each student takes a test. When grading the test, the teacher finds that students who took Version B scored higher than students who took either Version A or Version C. She concludes from this that Version B is easier, and discards it.

Flaw: It is possible that a group of students came in together and grabbed the B-version tests and were able to cheat with each other. Simpson's Paradox could apply here, as there is a potential difference between the subsets of this population. 
Correction: Randomize the distribution of test versions amongst students. 
